---
layout: post
title: 'Project Five'
---

In my professional experience working as a Sr Advanced Analytics Developer at Graybar Electric, I took on several roles ranging from data analysis to data engineering. A particular challenge we faced as a team was the need to update data in our Hadoop system every day. Our daily data ingests (mostly from SAP, but other sources as well) required that over 150 tables be up-to-date every morning that we came into work. The process our team was using to this point was painfully slow, taking nearly 22 hours to complete. Myself and a fellow team member rewrote the ingest process from the bottom up. We used parallel processing to ingest smaller tables in parallel, and for large tables implemented a delta process where only records that had been changed or added were ingested rather than the entire data source. This drastically reduced the time taken for daily data ingestion from 22 hours to around 7 hours. With this improvement, the team was able to build new dashboards in Qlik that could provide other teams within the business up-to-date information to assist their needs.In my professional experience working as a Sr Advanced Analytics Developer at Graybar Electric, I took on several roles ranging from data analysis to data engineering. A particular challenge we faced as a team was the need to update data in our Hadoop system every day. Our daily data ingests (mostly from SAP, but other sources as well) required that over 150 tables be up-to-date every morning that we came into work. The process our team was using to this point was painfully slow, taking nearly 22 hours to complete. Myself and a fellow team member rewrote the ingest process from the bottom up. We used parallel processing to ingest smaller tables in parallel, and for large tables implemented a delta process where only records that had been changed or added were ingested rather than the entire data source. This drastically reduced the time taken for daily data ingestion from 22 hours to around 7 hours. With this improvement, the team was able to build new dashboards in Qlik that could provide other teams within the business up-to-date information to assist their needs.


{% include image.html url="http://www.gratisography.com" image="projects/gb-parallel-ingests/gun-pants.jpg" %}
